thank you
[Music]
um in your roadmap things have to be
done before we can engineer negligible
Solutions
Richardson is the most challenging
scientific leader the one you're least
sure what you can do
definitely the um
combating of mutations in our nuclear
tree
that doesn't have to be done thoroughly
but it has to be done in a way that
stops us from dying cancer which is the
hardest part of it to fix
unlike everything else that goes wrong
but
cancer has natural selection on its side
the cleverer we get at throwing new
treatments at authorities the clever the
body get in it so because I really can't
forget
um it's very very hard
for doing this is extremely ambitious
or something that we ought to be able to
uh
right and now suppose that that works
and suppose that
um
uh the other elements of your what you
call the road map
I suppose they all work out how
confident are you that
the net result of that will indeed be
inevitable senescence but in other words
how confident are you that after that
you know it'll be another series of
things which are killing us and which
we'll have to start again from scratch
and solve I know it's all confident
about in fact I'm talking to the
opposite I'm confident there will be
other films but I'm pretty confident
that they won't kill us for at least
another 30 or 40 years
the reason to that company is that
there's already a quite a bit about that
much variation in the rate at which
these things accumulate the thing we
know about accumulate in different
people and also in different people
something to give me like graspness and
flour in fact
so that inherent variation that we see
in the population tells us that things
that we haven't yet started even though
um we've been looking quite hard
um are unlikely to become prevalent
until we reach maybe 30 or 40 years
older than we can't
I'm very assured that if these things
that are coming up
so hard to find and probably the best
way to find them is to eliminate the
thing within our battle
but even it it turns out that those
other things are much how it affects and
we don't fix any time it's the best
right so but in any case it's not a
matter of one more ease it's it's a
matter of
crossing the this is the barriers that
we know about and then turning around
and doing it again except we'll be
living on
right
um yes now you said like
like the most challenging thing you said
is basically curing cancer curing this
particular
cause of cancer yes
[Music]
um
so it seems to me then that that
curing diseases that is being the
conventional aim of the medical science
is going to be needed
and also every
a bit of progress in conventional
science is going to contribute it is not
an increased lifespan you know what
contributor was your
and therefore I I can't quite see what
is the uh tension what is the conflict
between your project and just the
general project of Medical Science yeah
very good question the attention is
there on many levels actually first of
all of course the psychological level we
have this very depleted long-standing
belief that aging is inevitable and
everything but charged over here to be
suspicious
um but also there's a problem at the
technical level as well
um in general when you want to uh
curiously eventually you may be able to
come up with something that's a real
cure like a vaccine for a tuberculosis
or whatever
um but in the case of these age related
problems uh the conventional approaches
and have really been well to postpone
them generally because when I'm not very
much at all because even if you can only
postpone something by maybe 10 or 20
years that's pretty good that's pretty
much equipment something else will kill
you first
calculations have done when you ask
people you know what they expect the
effects of their up-and-coming therapies
are but it's what it never happens that
way but there's a program does happen
all the others as well
[Music]
develop and so on
um
so why are you still looking at a 10
year 10 year thing of being quite
attractive it begins to be difficult to
make an argument
are you saying that the 10-year thing
isn't particularly the best way to
approach
absolutely right most medical
Technologies especially these ones that
are
um more or less explicitly admitting
that they're only postponed by most
period are not inherently extensible by
but
an iteration of minor refinements
um you mentioned philosophical issues um
I'm I've heard of the fact that uh in
our culture
death is supposed to be a great taboo
um I haven't actually heard of life
being a great taboo
yet it seems that the idea of science
providing human beings with more life
[Music]
what is so scary about
life
it is completely irrational there's no
question about that set in so far as it
can be regarded as rational from a
psychological idea
so if we say if we accept a moment which
of course we don't but
um anything really is inevitable and
nothing can ever be done with it and if
we also look at the ladies ghastly then
really you know we have to find
somewhere putting it out of our mind so
that we can get on with our lives and
not be miserable to tell you about it
and one way to do that is to come up
with witness to think that curing Aiden
would be bad or the aiding is good or at
least that it's um you know a sexual
World a definitely the other and um it
doesn't really matter how irrational the
reasoning is about
it's actually sort of worse than that it
sort of inversed as an inversion of the
psychological problems because I do with
anything the more irrational your
argument for something actually
believing something the more you sort of
half know it to rational and the more
defensive or perhaps even aggressive you
have to be in maintaining your you know
protect yourself out again
you need more emotions
this isn't just
religious people thinking that we owe
our death to God or something this is
this General feature in our culture
religious non-religious
um
the
matter religious could be regarded a
major example of the day
my conclusion is if they're correct are
extremely unpredictable for society and
you know that's something that
participants don't tend to like and
therefore it's not something that will
endear don't tell us if to politicians
and so when people worry about whether I
may be
um hurt and germatology by you know
scaring people and perhaps into
funding
the retire were also identified that
most of my colleagues genuinely disagree
with me however it's not really
scientific because the reason they
disagree with me is largely because they
don't know what I'm saying
um I'm sure that they're working fast
yourself we appreciate that um nobody
had enough time to read them what they'd
like and that's certainly occurs for
experimental biologists
and um so of course it's a bit of a
calculator too you have to be persuade
that something is worth studying in
detail before you've done it in detail
and if you have to say in detail in
order to establish it what we're
studying then you've never had but you
did say that your gerontology colleagues
are
okay well let's suppose that you're
right
um this is science we can't guarantee
anything so we don't know uh that these
problems will be solved in time to save
me or you
don't know for sure that anyone alive
today can be saved by this proposed
technology even though I'm actually
actually quite sure for quite
fundamental reasons that in principle it
must be possible
it that means so low
very danger when you're promoting and
arguing for this
This research philosophy isn't there a
danger of uh race and false hopes in
people there certainly is and this is a
very important question the only reason
I think that is
it too talk about time frames and of
course for pro vertical airtime frames I
always do is because the opposite is
also true if once they're silent on
something where the public have a
predisposition a very deeply debris
um
if one stays silent then wise
engendering them or into fashionable and
of course the more pessimism like this
is
the less people will agitate to get the
work done and to have money spend public
money
will delay the eventual development of
History
about a lot so I feel that we have to
press as hard as we can to feel as well
to be done but entail getting people
with imagination up a bit with
motivation up and that entails talking
about
very good point
yes um
there's a whole other approach that I've
heard of to what you
problem of immortality
mainly
what they're called cryonics that is to
freeze
people after they've died or notionably
died and in the hope that the future
technology will be able to both
cure whatever they died on and also undo
the Damage Done by the freezing now
that's a completely different approach
to
uh what do you think of it well actually
actually it's realistic and the reason I
think it's realistic is because you're
wrong it's not a completely different
approach at all it's merely um a sort of
add-on to my breath
microbe is to take people who have not
yet died and repair the damage that have
accumulated in them as an intrinsic side
effects of metabolism throughout their
lives and thereby maintaining them in a
useful condition but
now when you die officially in other
words when you become legally dead
um not much have happened
um basically the difference between
being legally alive and legally dead or
not clinically like clinically debt is
not in the states you're in but in the
rate at which that state is changing so
you're gradually going down there and
then your heart stops and if I go down a
lot faster but it's still a finite flow
and that's why bionics is
a big projects are taken down to liquid
diet within a small amount of time
ideally from the planetary
then the amount of damage that has
occurred in the um
process of post-death Decay is
relatively minor
so that means you preserve a person in
more or less the same effect they were
into before that hard stuff
[Music]
at all occurs in the process of
thank you
so there are still problems with
crystallization during the Warlock
process
um and and there are one or two other
problems with fracturing itself
um but anyway so the the problem have
been made very rapidly
um
there is a toxicity problem
again
so really as far as
a challenge to resuscitating someone who
has been crowd reserved in the Black
Bottle
that that we today can manage is
actually
um
so they prepare for things that
accumulated before they died
if you look at the first generation of
these technological developers probably
if you're a deaf thought we would be
able to help you very much
okay um technologies that will be quite
strenuous and before we went they
vigorous enough to withstand them
um but that time is our rapid aspect
for internet but also in terms of
foreign
incremental improvements on the same
technology will be able to bring you
back from a little Way Beyond the legal
break
that's all very interesting
now again let's supposing that you're
right
um
if somebody were to to walk in here now
with a gun and say uh
you know I'll kill you in
five minutes or I'll kill you in a year
or whatever unless we do ourselves
unless you handle
unless you give me all your money
I think most people would be inclined to
say
well life is more important than just
property so you know they're being
inclined to give at gunpoint
uh whatever is asked more or less
they've been willing to give quite a lot
before they've
before it's not worth the candle right
as we've discussed though somehow in
regard to Natural aging people take
their
Opera would die than hand over material
Goods in the form of research funds for
you but nevertheless they do have a job
of appointment which which it seems to
me it is this
What proportion of our national wealth
or the wealth of the world or
should and and also intellectual effort
and and
also uh dislocation from social change
and so what what chemical effort what
terms of proportion of our effort do you
think it is rational
for the world to give your project I
really don't know and the only reason
I'm
is that
I see the process evolving through a
period the first period in which
there is only a very important that
might be expanded by
Christ national product presenters
um and at the end of that period there
will be interim results in laboratory in
life that will convince foreign
and that will be overthrown by results
in
with a residency
and one third of occurred there will be
a great event started with regard to
accept
um about how much what we ought to throw
this when they are how much we ought to
try in fact at um
other things that we throw a little at
the moment like for example the
development of vaccines or giving people
in Africa
um I think all of these yes
[Music]
floor
energetically the serious is the um
progress an embroidery is sufficient to
persuade gerontology as a whole rather
than just me that's this is really
foreseeable it's very nice to see that
you're optimistic but not only about
your scientific research but also about
the prospects of persuading The World At
Large
well I mean I'm optimistic but I think
we ought to be careful about how we use
the word optimistic because you know um
as you were saying earlier in your
upcoming book you've discussed this
not optimism
sort of um you know double-edged ring to
it as if it's optimistic is almost
synonymous with over optimistic yes so I
think I want to make a point that I I've
thought about these things
I think that
the reason why Society will follow the
opinions of the gerontology
[Music]
uh this is born out by the fact that
General believes Society in scientific
matters follows the consensus of the
relevant scientific community in pretty
much everything else
similarly I think
soon I think based on my knowledge of
the field in general
I know what it's going to take to
persuade my colleagues not just to
believe that we are within Striking
Distance of seriously investment
and um
and and so I think both of those things
is cancer and that's going to involve
quite sophisticated stem cell therapy
but it's also going to involve whatever
it's very dream therapy and clean
therapy of course is important in a
bunch of things it's important for
getting the bacterial daily to ourselves
what we found to him it's kind
of putting
tree therapies an area which again you
know people are being very logical about
it
before I'm interested in right now
um clear therapy has really gone quite
well
in in all these cases in all seven uh
of these lines of research
can we think about
translating from
the scientific breakthrough to the
therapy to what it will look like from
the from the punters point of view it
how can I envisages
if this works would I be let's say
um visiting the doctors at the end of
every Christmas and getting an injection
of something which will rejuvenate me or
will it be a really serious aggressive
intervention
take up 90 of my time I'll spend the
rest of the time enjoy it
I think that I at first when
[Music]
I wouldn't be able to talk about hotels
going into hospital for a moment
having all manner of different stem cell
therapies for example some stem cell
intercoms the bloodstream others
injected into
the tattoo therapy Again by injections
probably using viruses which are the
main ways in which we get we do to
imperfect moment it'll also involve
vaccines that will involve
standard of the drugs as well so it
won't be very nice well I've had this
done to you at first it'll be elaborous
but it will be in a month in hospital
and then you've got 10 years before you
have to come back
10 years later
but it wouldn't surprise me if 10 years
not to say this will happen in this
particular period of time but to say I
think that we have given a chance
however I do like to stick my neck out
and give such time to go most of my
colleagues refer to do so they say it's
engendering I'm willing to optimism in
in society
if we stay silent
so my time frames are I think that with
sufficient funding we should be able to
reach the um
the first master that I like to talk
about which is real serious life
extension in mice
um within 10 years and when I say
serious funding I mean something in the
region of 100 million dollars a year
attorney um
[Music]
what I mean by serious life extension is
first of all I mean that
um the actual length of life has to be
and particularly it has to be healthy
life to improved so we're absolutely not
talking here about extending
his prayer life but suddenly and very
importantly the therapist has to begin
when the mice are already in Middle
and also the mice have to be pretty
healthy rubber
so what that means in round numbers is
that we take a spare advice that would
normally live about three years that
high on the high five tonight
and we do nothing at all to them until
they're already tuned so they've got a
year left and we trouble that we're
getting that their fifth birthday
remaining lifespan of
healthy healthy mice still
um then I think that will convince for
my colleagues that we're we're on the
right track into humans as well
one of my earlier questions
where the existing medical research fits
into the scheme for instance one of the
things that has to be done is basically
curing cancer curric cancer is already
something that there's a lot of money
going into and so on and so
um are you saying that you're going to
ride the wave of the cancer cure that is
coming anyway or is this project going
to somehow accelerate movement cancer
cures if so
why is it up there already mainstream
right the
reason it's
modestly effective Therapies
seem to be relatively easy to develop
ing over extremely ambitious therapies
that might be
so I'm looking at developing therapy
experiment of cancer death from cancer
many years at the
Valley and nobody ever looking at
therapy
basically the power of national
cancer
that any therapy which can in principle
be escaped by the cancer
cancer
[Music]
um
that I'm interested in for humans
stream in numerical town amount
after that taken after two-thirds of the
way through its lifespan the trouble is
remain a lifespan
humans I think
so in other words they can hit maybe 55
got 30 years left on average
less than 30 calories
the reason that I
aiming because it's rather less and um
now the reason it's rather less and big
star and coordinating proportional terms
is because 30 years
it's actually 30 years and it's as we're
saying all these other technology if one
has the public motivation and also if
the advantages that need to be made can
be made incrementally invest with small
Stars in 30 years welcome back
for my technology just by Progressive
refinance
so I'm very
very good therapist which can give 55
year olds an extra 30 years of life then
by the time they get to be viral they
don't have to drive again when
the therapist that
um
high five that they won't have another
30 years left people now
how many more years left
um
means like keeping a vintage car going
you know me British travel mortality
rate
we just have to develop the same degree
of technology for humans and
I've been calling this concept life
extension escape velocity because what
it means effectively is the technology
[Music]
than the remaining infections in the
technology are catching up
and therefore the amount of microscopic
damage molecular cellular damage which
is not ever able to rise to a level of
abundance that's actually causing um
to function
I believe because what I need for
lunchtime Fitness
and
excited but
to within a factor of two people reckon
that
about 1000
and how often we die after
they could die of causes that have to do
with aging whether it be on the road
closely or homicide or
um not interestingly of course that
calculates a little bit naive because we
can affect the risk well realistically
we're lucky about that I think we're
lucky we don't consider a remorse
reverse personally knowing that we have
so much more to stay
um when I was writing a book about
trying to get a go on
Saturday and I had a few patients
and one thing I predicted but driving
would be out loud
um and I think that may be uh
effect will all Drive incredibly
supplies areas that entry even in the
context of really
well
our risk diversion is seems to be
increasing anyway
absolutely right I think it's not
actually a risk of personalized or it's
uh uh
in between
the value of life that's right I mean I
think the fact that we've all got a
death penalty
rapidly
believe this the um
population problems that might arise
from
it so yeah I I didn't read this before
okay
and after a few weeks after a week
[Music]